# Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers

**Author:** Presented by President Dallin H. Oaks
**Role:** First Counselor in the First Presidency

<a name="p1"></a>Brothers and sisters, it will now be my privilege to present the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church for your sustaining vote.

<a name="p2"></a>Please express your support in the usual way. If there are those who oppose any of the proposals, we ask that you contact your stake president.

<a name="p3"></a>It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.

<a name="p4"></a>Those in favor may manifest it.

<a name="p5"></a>Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.

<a name="p6"></a>It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and Jeffrey R. Holland as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.

<a name="p7"></a>Those in favor, please signify.

<a name="p8"></a>Any opposed may manifest it.

<a name="p9"></a>It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, Ulisses Soares, and Patrick Kearon.

<a name="p10"></a>Those in favor, please manifest it.

<a name="p11"></a>Any opposed may so indicate.

<a name="p12"></a>It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.

<a name="p13"></a>All in favor, please manifest it.

<a name="p14"></a>Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.

<a name="p15"></a>The following General Authorities will be released from their assignments and given emeritus status, effective on August 1, 2024: Elders Ian S. Ardern, Shayne M. Bowen, Paul V. Johnson, S. Gifford Nielsen, Brent H. Nielson, Adrián Ochoa, Gary B. Sabin, and Evan A. Schmutz.

<a name="p16"></a>Those who wish to express gratitude to these brethren and their wives for their years of dedicated service throughout the Church may do so by the uplifted hand.

<a name="p17"></a>We also release Elder Carlos A. Godoy from serving as a member of the Presidency of the Seventy, effective on August 1, 2024.

<a name="p18"></a>Those who wish to express appreciation to Elder Godoy for his service in this capacity may do so.

<a name="p19"></a>We note with gratitude the Area Seventies who will complete their service and whose names can be found on the Church’s website.

<a name="p20"></a>Those who wish to join in expressing appreciation to these brethren and to their families for their years of selfless service may manifest it.

<a name="p21"></a>We extend releases to the Sunday School General Presidency, effective on August 1, 2024, as follows: Mark L. Pace as President, Milton Camargo as First Counselor, and Jan E. Newman as Second Counselor.

<a name="p22"></a>All who wish to join in expressing appreciation to these brothers for their devoted service may manifest it.

<a name="p23"></a>It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Presidency of the Seventy: Elder Marcus B. Nash, who began his service in January 2024, and Elders Michael T. Ringwood, Arnulfo Valenzuela, and Edward Dube, who will begin their service on August 1, 2024.

<a name="p24"></a>Those in favor may manifest it.

<a name="p25"></a>Any opposed may manifest it.

<a name="p26"></a>It is proposed that we sustain the following as General Authority Seventies: David L. Buckner, Gregorio E. Casillas, Aroldo B. Cavalcante, I. Raymond Egbo, D. Martin Goury, Karl D. Hirst, Christopher H. Kim, Sandino Roman, Steven D. Shumway, Michael B. Strong, and Sergio R. Vargas.

<a name="p27"></a>All in favor, please manifest it.

<a name="p28"></a>Those opposed, by the same sign.

<a name="p29"></a>We note that 64 new Area Seventies were sustained during the general conference leadership meetings on Thursday, April 4, and then announced on the Church’s website. We invite you to sustain these brethren in their new assignments.

<a name="p31"></a>Those in favor, please manifest it.

<a name="p32"></a>Any opposed, by the same sign.

<a name="p33"></a>It is proposed that we sustain the following as the new Sunday School General Presidency, to be effective on August 1, 2024: Paul V. Johnson as President, Chad H Webb as First Counselor, and Gabriel W. Reid as Second Counselor.

<a name="p46"></a>Those in favor may manifest it.

<a name="p47"></a>Any opposed may so signify.

<a name="p48"></a>We note that Brother Reid is currently serving as president of the Australia Sydney Mission and is therefore not in Salt Lake City for the conference.

<a name="p36"></a>It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers as presently constituted.

<a name="p37"></a>All in favor may do so by the uplifted hand.

<a name="p38"></a>Those opposed, if any.

<a name="p39"></a>Thank you, brothers and sisters, for your continued faith and prayers on behalf of the leadership of the Church.

## Changes to Area Seventies

<a name="p42"></a>**The following Area Seventies were sustained during a leadership session held as part of general conference:**

<a name="p43"></a>Daniel A. Abeo, Mauricio A. Araújo, Randy T. Austin, Michel D. Avegnon, Philip J. Barton, Bradley S. Bateman, Eber Antônio Beck, Eric D. Bednar, Jared Black, Bryan G. Borela, Jaime A. Bravo, Juan G. Cardenas, Sancho N. Chukwu, Mark J Cluff, Danilo F. Costales, Daniel A. Cruzado, Gregorio Davalos, Julio N. Del Sero, Ryan E. Dobbs, Stephen W. Dyer, Brik V. Eyre, Denny Fa‘alogo, Timothy L. Farnes, Martín P. Fernández, Luis A. Ferrizo, Ángel J. Gómez, Georgie E. Guidi, Shinjiro Hara, Daniel L. Harris, Todd D. Haynie, Thomas Hengst, John R. Higgins, Niels O. Jensen, Fritzner A. Joseph, Kyoni Kasongo, John S. K. Kauwe III, Dan Kawashima, J. Joseph Kiehl, Carl F. Krauss, Yew Mun Kwan, Woo Cheol Lee, Wai Hung Mak, David R. Marriott, Ignatius Maziofa, Derek B. Miller, Albert Mutariswa, Marvin I. Palomo, Kyung Yeol Park, Domingo J. Perez, Oscar A. Perez, Raul Perez, Gayle L. Pollock, Pierre Portes, Marco A. Quezada, Stephen T. Rockwood, Guillermo Rojas, Kgomotso T. Sehloho, Sandro Alex Silva, Juswan Tandiman, Asuquo E. Udobong, Dwayne J. Van Heerden, Shih Ning (Steve) Yang, Juan F. Zorrilla, Leopoldo Zuñiga.

<a name="p44"></a>**The following Area Seventies will be released on or before August 1, 2024:**

<a name="p45"></a>Solomon I. Aliche, Guillermo A. Alvarez, Daren R. Barney, Julius F. Barrientos, James H. Bekker, David L. Buckner, Glenn Burgess, Marcos Cabral, Gregorio E. Casillas, Dunstan G. B. T. Chadambuka, Alan C. K. Cheung, Paul N. Clayton, Michael Cziesla, Hiroyuki Domon, Mernard P. Donato, I. Raymond Egbo, Zachary F. Evans, Sapele Fa‘alogo Jr., Saulo G. Franco, David Frischknecht, John J. Gallego, Efraín R. García, Robert Gordon, Mark A. Gottfredson, D. Martin Goury, Michael J. Hess, Bhanu K. Hiranandani, Richard S. Hutchins, Tito Ibañez, Eustache Ilunga, Akinori Ito, Anthony M. Kaku, Christopher H. Kim, H. Moroni Klein, Stephen Chee Kong Lai, V. Daniel Lattaro, Thabo Lebethoa, Tarmo Lepp, Itzcoatl Lozano, Kevin Lythgoe, Clement M. Matswagothata, Edgar P. Montes, Luiz C. D. Queiroz, Ifano Rasolondraibe, Eduardo D. Resek, Tomás G. Román, Ramon E. Sarmiento, Steven D. Shumway, Luis Spina, Jared W. Stone, Michael B. Strong, Djarot Subiantoro, Carlos G. Süffert, Voi R. Taeoalii, Karim Del Valle, Sergio R. Vargas, Helmut Wondra.